# evo-devo-nkfl 2023-2024
Code repository for the research on the evodevo NKFL research project for the 2023-2024 school year

To find the file for configurations, click on the folder labeled "config". Then click on the folder labeled "Exaptations". Then click on the folder named "Experiments". Now click on the file named "myConfig.properties". Editing this will change parameters for experiments.
In order to replicate an experiment, change the seed to the given seed in the config file. Change the other parameters accordingly. The "state" field determines what experiment will run. All .csv files are stored in the "output" folder. The different states for the "state" field are as follows:

1: Creates a new simulation, runs the simulation, and gets a list of the generations generated by the simulation. Then, it writes each generation to a .csv file titled "GenerationAtk" where k is a generation number between 0 and the number given in the "numGenerations" field, inclusive.

2: This state reads in the .csv lineage file with the name given in the "lineagePotFile" field and re-instantiates each agent. It then creates the number in the field "numGenerations" generations, each generation populated with the number in the field "generationSize" clones of the agent in the lineage at that generation.

3: Calculates the number h such that h is the greatest integer such that h(p), where p is the integer in the field "stepSizeNum", is less than or equal to the integer specified in the field "numGenerations". For each nonnegative integer of the form i(p) where i is a nonnegative integer
less than or equal to the integer specified in the field "numGenerations", it reads the file "GenerationAtk", where k is between 0 and the integer specified in the field "numGenerations", and re-runs the simulation from that generation for the number of generations specified in "potentiationRunNum". It runs the number of trials specified in the field "constantPotentiationRunNum" for each such generation, and calculates the percentage of those
trials in which the highest possible fitness was reached. It then prints the generation number and the corresponding percentage of trials that reached the highest possible fitness to a file with the title "Potentiation.csv".

#Run Instructions
To run constant potentiation, first run state 1 and then run state 3 with the desired parameters. This is needed because state 1 generates the files which state 3 runs from. To run cloning potentiation, run state 1, then state 2, and then run state 3 with the desired parameters.

#Graphing Instructions for Potentiation

To graph the conditions and the potentiation results, go to the file labeled "Python" and open "ConditionScanner.py" on the IDE of your choice. Run "ConditionScanner.py" (make sure to run this with an IDE or Python's built in IDLE, as it does not work when run from command line/double-clicked). There will be a pop-up that asks for a file to graph. To graph the conditions and potentiation data, select the file that has the title that you entered in the "finalFilename" field in the "myConfig.properties" in the "output" file for this project. To graph the conditions, select the file that has the title that you entered in the "conditionFile" field in the "myConfig.properties" file, which should be in the "output" file for this project.

#Graphing Instructions for Lineage

To graph the fitness and condition occurences of a lineage, the process is similar to the above. Go to the file labeled "Python", and open "LineagePlotter.py" in your IDE, making sure not to run it from the command line. There will be a pop-up allowing you to select a file, at which point you should select the csv file containing the lineage you wish to plot. After selecting it, the program should open up a window displaying the plot, which you can resize and save as a png if you wish.
